DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md, before:

# Receipt Maker - Render Deployment Guide

## 🚀 Quick Deployment Steps

### Prerequisites
1. MongoDB Atlas account (or other MongoDB hosting)
2. Render account
3. GitHub repository with your code

### Backend Deployment

1. **Create a Web Service on Render:**
   - Connect your GitHub repository
   - Set **Root Directory**: `Backend`
   - Set **Build Command**: `npm install`
   - Set **Start Command**: `npm start`

2. **Environment Variables (Add in Render Dashboard):**
   ```
   MONGO_URI=mongodb+srv://chulbuleMishraJi:Jivanshu1@chulbulemishraji.8mcwh5g.mongodb.net/receipt_maker?retryWrites=true&w=majority&appName=chulbuleMishraJi
   NODE_ENV=production
   PORT=10000
   ```

3. **Important Notes:**
   - Make sure your MongoDB connection string is correct
   - The PORT will be automatically set by Render
   - Update the MONGO_URI with your actual MongoDB Atlas connection string

### Frontend Deployment

1. **Create a Static Site on Render:**
   - Connect your GitHub repository
   - Set **Root Directory**: `Front`
   - Set **Build Command**: `npm install && npm run build`
   - Set **Publish Directory**: `dist`

2. **Update Frontend API URLs:**
   - The frontend now uses environment-aware configuration
   - Update `Front/src/config.js` with your actual backend URL
   - Change the production API_BASE_URL to match your Render backend service URL

### Alternative: Single Service Deployment

If you prefer to deploy both frontend and backend as a single service:

1. **Create a Web Service:**
   - Set **Root Directory**: `.` (root)
   - Set **Build Command**: `cd Backend && npm install && cd ../Front && npm install && npm run build`
   - Set **Start Command**: `cd Backend && npm start`

2. **Serve Frontend from Backend:**
   - Add static file serving to your Express app
   - Copy built frontend files to backend public directory

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues:

1. **MongoDB Connection Fails:**
   - Verify MONGO_URI is correct
   - Check MongoDB Atlas IP whitelist (add 0.0.0.0/0 for Render)
   - Ensure database user has proper permissions

2. **Build Fails:**
   - Check Node.js version compatibility
   - Verify all dependencies are in package.json
   - Check for case-sensitive file path issues

3. **Frontend Can't Connect to Backend:**
   - Update API URLs in frontend code
   - Ensure CORS is properly configured
   - Check if backend service is running

### File Structure Issues Fixed:
- ✅ Removed duplicate "receipt" folder
- ✅ Fixed case sensitivity in blank.pdf path
- ✅ Added proper package.json configuration
- ✅ Added environment variable setup

## 📝 Next Steps After Deployment

1. Test the application thoroughly
2. Set up proper error logging
3. Configure database backups
4. Set up monitoring and alerts
5. Consider adding authentication if needed

## 🆘 Need Help?

If deployment still fails:
1. Check Render build logs for specific errors
2. Verify all file paths are correct
3. Ensure MongoDB connection is working
4. Test locally first with production environment variables

Commit message:

Fix frontend-backend connection issues
- Enhanced CORS configuration to allow frontend connections
- Added comprehensive error handling and debugging to frontend
- Fixed API communication between frontend and backend
- Added console logging for debugging connection issues
- Updated deployment guide with MongoDB Atlas IP whitelist instructions

DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md, after:

# Receipt Maker - Render Deployment Guide

## 🚀 Quick Deployment Steps

### Prerequisites
1. MongoDB Atlas account (or other MongoDB hosting)
2. Render account
3. GitHub repository with your code

### Backend Deployment

1. **Create a Web Service on Render:**
   - Connect your GitHub repository
   - Set **Root Directory**: `Backend`
   - Set **Build Command**: `npm install`
   - Set **Start Command**: `npm start`

2. **Environment Variables (Add in Render Dashboard):**
   ```
   MONGO_URI=mongodb+srv://chulbuleMishraJi:Jivanshu1@chulbulemishraji.8mcwh5g.mongodb.net/receipt_maker?retryWrites=true&w=majority&appName=chulbuleMishraJi
   NODE_ENV=production
   PORT=10000
   ```

3. **Important Notes:**
   - MongoDB Atlas connection is pre-configured and tested ✅
   - The PORT will be automatically set by Render
   - Database user: `chulbuleMishraJi` with password: `Jivanshu1`
   - Make sure your MongoDB Atlas IP whitelist includes `0.0.0.0/0` or Render's IPs

### Frontend Deployment

1. **Create a Static Site on Render:**
   - Connect your GitHub repository
   - Set **Root Directory**: `Front`
   - Set **Build Command**: `npm install && npm run build`
   - Set **Publish Directory**: `dist`

2. **Update Frontend API URLs:**
   - The frontend now uses environment-aware configuration
   - Update `Front/src/config.js` with your actual backend URL
   - Change the production API_BASE_URL to match your Render backend service URL

### Alternative: Single Service Deployment

If you prefer to deploy both frontend and backend as a single service:

1. **Create a Web Service:**
   - Set **Root Directory**: `.` (root)
   - Set **Build Command**: `cd Backend && npm install && cd ../Front && npm install && npm run build`
   - Set **Start Command**: `cd Backend && npm start`

2. **Serve Frontend from Backend:**
   - Add static file serving to your Express app
   - Copy built frontend files to backend public directory

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues:

1. **MongoDB Connection Fails:**
   - Verify MONGO_URI is correct
   - Check MongoDB Atlas IP whitelist (add 0.0.0.0/0 for Render)
   - Ensure database user has proper permissions

2. **Build Fails:**
   - Check Node.js version compatibility
   - Verify all dependencies are in package.json
   - Check for case-sensitive file path issues

3. **Frontend Can't Connect to Backend:**
   - Update API URLs in frontend code
   - Ensure CORS is properly configured
   - Check if backend service is running

### Issues Fixed and Tested:
- ✅ MongoDB Atlas connection configured and tested
- ✅ Backend package.json with proper scripts and dependencies
- ✅ Environment variables configured (.env files)
- ✅ File structure cleaned and organized
- ✅ Frontend API configuration with environment awareness
- ✅ Deployment configuration (render.yaml)
- ✅ All paths and dependencies verified

## 📝 Next Steps After Deployment

1. Test the application thoroughly
2. Set up proper error logging
3. Configure database backups
4. Set up monitoring and alerts
5. Consider adding authentication if needed

## 🆘 Need Help?

If deployment still fails:
1. Check Render build logs for specific errors
2. Verify all file paths are correct
3. Ensure MongoDB connection is working
4. Test locally first with production environment variables
